Best Practices

bookmark_border
Overview
This page provides guidelines for designing a high-quality extension and Chrome Web Store listing. These recommendations may be updated as the store continues to grow and we learn from developers' experiences. We strongly encourage you to create extensions that meet standards for compliance, performance, security, and user experience, as described in the following sections.

Compliance
Extensions that are available in the Chrome Web Store are required to adhere to the developer program policies. If you've received a policy violation warning or want to learn about common violations pitfalls, see Troubleshooting Chrome Web Store violations.

Manifest Version 3
Manifest V3 is the most recent version of the Chrome extension platform and is the required version for submitting new items to the Chrome Web Store. See the Manifest V3 overview to learn about the platform changes. Existing extensions should consider migrating to Manifest V3, see Migrate to Manifest V3 for instructions on how to migrate.

Security
Your extension should be safe for your users. For example, send user data securely via HTTPS or web services security. Check that your extension does not pose security threats and does not use deceptive installation tactics. See Stay secure for a more information.

Privacy
An extension is required to disclose in the Privacy tab what user data it will collect and how it will handle user data. This information must be accurate, up-to-date, and match the extension's privacy policy. For more guidance on privacy, see Protecting User Privacy policies and the User Data FAQs.

Performance and functionality
Performance Tooling
Add end-to-end tests using testing libraries like Puppeteer to make sure your extension is performing as intended from start to finish. In addition, consider conducting thorough manual testing across different browser versions, OSs, and network conditions to ensure smooth functionality.

Avoiding performance pitfalls
When you are releasing your extension, there are a number of common performance issues you should make sure to avoid.

Back/Forward cache invalidation
The back/forward cache is an optimization built into Chrome that allows for instant loading of a page when a user returns to it. Given extensions can run on every page, its essential you make sure avoid code that prevents that caching, or else you risk substantially slowing down your users. Make sure you test if your extension invalidates the cache. Common causes of cache invalidation include

Unload Handler The unload handler has been deprecated for a long time and should generally never be used. If you are using it, pagehide event is the most popular alternative. If you need to run code after the page closes, there is chrome.tabs.onRemoved.

WebSockets in content scripts If you have a content script with a WebSocket or WebRTC connection, then the page cannot be cached. You can instead move these connections to your background service worker script. We have a guide on how to keep your connection in a background script, and then proxy the results to your content script with runtime.connect.

User experience
Design your extension with the user in mind by providing a simple, intuitive, and seamless user interface while also respecting user privacy.

Onboarding experience
Start onboarding your users as soon as they reach your store listing by providing screenshots and a video of how the extension works. We recommend following the permission warning guidelines to increase the chances of users installing your extension.

Designing a persistent UI
Avoid distracting users when implementing a persistent UI. For example, when designing a side panel for your extension, make sure it enhances the user's browsing experience by providing relevant information and useful functionality. A side panel should help users accomplish tasks with as little distraction as possible.

Sign in with Google
If your extension requires user login, we recommend that you support Sign in with Google, which provides a good user experience for Chrome Web Store users as they are likely to be logged in already. If you already have a login system, consider correlating the Google Account ID to the user account in your system. You can use the Chrome Identity API to support Google accounts in the following ways:

OAuth2: See Authenticate users with Google.
Store listing
The purpose of an extension's Chrome Web Store store listing is to set the user's expectations. It should explicitly communicate what the extension does. See Listing requirements for a complete list of requirements.

Create a compelling store listing
The better your extension's store listing, the more users will discover and try your extension. Creating a great listing page provides guidelines for designing the best store listing experience. When choosing your extension's name, writing its description, and designing its logo, keep in mind Google's Branding guidelines.

Provide great images
Include all the required images (icon, tile, marquee, and screenshots). Images should not be blurry or too busy, as described in Images of a high-quality listing.

Choose your extension's category well
The developer console requires you to specify a category for your extension. Choose the most appropriate category:

Accessibility
Extensions designed to enhance the browsing experience for individuals with visual impairments, hearing loss, limited dexterity, and other disabilities. This may include tools like screen readers, dark mode extensions, or utilities that help with navigation, using keyboard shortcuts, voice commands, among others.
Art & Design
These extensions provide tools for viewing, editing, organizing, and sharing images and photos. They may also offer features for capturing screenshots, image searching, and integrating with popular image hosting or editing services.
Communication
Extensions that enable communications. This category covers a wide variety of things: composing and templating emails, email management, screen sharing, video conferencing apps and enhancements, and much more.
Developer Tools
Extensions that help web developers perform tasks like debugging, performance analysis, code linting, and tools that enhance the browser's Dev Tools. For example, real-time HTML/CSS/JavaScript editing, API testing, and CSS inspection.
Education
Extensions that teach or aid in teaching, including language learning, note-taking, teaching aids, and sign-language instruction, among others.
Entertainment
These extensions are designed for fans of sports, music, television, and cinema.
Functionality & UI
Extensions that enhance the Chrome user interface, such as tab managers, shortcut managers, and app launchers.
Games
Extensions providing a wide array of desktop and arcade-style games.
Household
Extensions for helping you around the house. This category includes recipe savers and managers, budgeting, product research, and more.
Just for Fun
These extensions are designed for entertainment. They can include games, interesting new tab backgrounds, quirky widgets, jokes, trivia, and more.
News & Weather
These extensions keep users informed about current events and weather conditions. They can collect news from multiple sources, present real-time weather updates, notify breaking news, and more.
Privacy & Security
Extensions such as VPNs, password safes, and phishing deterrence.
Shopping
These extensions aim to enhance the online shopping experience. They might offer features like price comparison, coupon finders, reviews and ratings, wish list management, and more.
Social Media & Networking
These extensions are designed to enhance social media platforms. They can integrate with services and offer features like easy sharing, notifications, status updates, and more.
Tools
Tools that don't fit into other categories
Travel
Extensions for planning trips.
Well-being
Extensions for self-help, mindfulness, and personal development.
Workflow & Planning
Extensions to help users perform their tasks more efficiently. They could range from time trackers, tools to stay focused, to-do list managers, email organizers, document editors, and calendar utilities, among others.
Category revisions
In mid 2023 the categories changed. Most of the new categories match previous ones. Several were replaced by multiple categories. If you previously used one of the replaced categories, use the table below to decide which new category best suits your extension.

Fun
* Entertainment
Games
Just for Fun
Photos
* Art & Design
Productivity
* Education
Functionality & UI
Household
Privacy & Security
Tools
Workflow & Planning
Social & Communications
* Communication
Social Media & Networking
Travel
Well-being
Choose your theme's category well
The developer console also asks you specify a category for your theme. Choose the most appropriate category:

Animals
Themes inspired by animals.
Art & Design
Themes built merely to make your browser look pretty.
Cars
Themes relating to cars, such as current and classic cars.
Colors
Themes that skin your browser in custom colors.
Dark & Black
Themes that feature dark colors and imagery.
Entertainment
Themes inspired by popular entertainment, such as television and film franchises.
Games & Anime
Themes inspired by video games and anime.
Minimalist
Themes that simplify the look of your browser.
Nature & Landscapes
Themes inspired by the great outdoors.
Space
Themes inspired by space.
Other
A category for themes that don't have a home anywhere else.


Creating a great listing page

bookmark_border
The Chrome Web Store works hard to help users discover and install quality items. Making sure yours is a "quality item" can help ensure its prominence in the store, potentially increasing your user base.

We focus on surfacing quality items to users across the entire user experience—this includes the store listing page. Build trust with users by making a strong first impression, with a compelling and accurate store listing page. A quality listing page clearly communicates what your item will offer, using the item description, images, and other listing metadata. You can build and maintain your store listing page using the developer dashboard.

Items in the store are ranked or featured in order to make it easier for users to find high quality content. Ranking is performed by a heuristic that takes into account ratings from users as well as usage statistics, such as the number of downloads vs. uninstalls over time.

Other factors include the following:

The design is pleasant to the eye.
The item provides a clear purpose and fills a real user need.
The setup and onboarding flow are intuitive.
The item is easy to use.
Text
There are two main text resources that you can use to make your listing compelling: The item summary and the item description. The following sections explain how to make best use of these text fields.

Item title
The title of your extension should accurately reflect the extension's core function. A good extension title should be:

Clear and descriptive: Users should have a good idea of what the extension does just by reading the title.
Concise: Shorter titles are easier to remember and stand out in the store.
Unique: Avoid titles that are similar to existing extensions.
Do
Keep it brief and memorable, while conveying the main function of your extension.

Don't
Stuff the title with keywords. Short, catchy names are more memorable to users.

Item summary
Your summary is used to give an overview of your item in a concise phrase (132 characters or less). This is the main description of your item users see from the homepage, category pages and in search results. Ensure the most important text is included in your summary to help users understand what they can expect from your item in a quick glance.

Do
Highlight features of your item that resonate with your audience's main use cases.

Don't
Include generic descriptions like "best extension ever", superlatives like "greatest" and "fastest", or specifically reference similar or competing extensions.

Note: The summary is a plain text string (no HTML or other formatting) that describes the extension. The description should be suitable for both the browser's extension management UI and the Chrome Web Store. You can specify locale-specific strings for this field; see Internationalization for details.
Item description
Your item description is intended to give users a more in-depth overview of the main features and capabilities of your item. Item descriptions appear on the item listing page, underneath the screenshots. Make your descriptions concise, informative, and accurate, using more than just one sentence. Help users understand what specific features and capabilities they can unlock after installing the extension. The ideal format is an overview paragraph followed by a short list of main features. Let users know why they'll love it. Avoid typos and symbols that commonly distract the user.

Do
Focus on the keywords that represent the most important features of your extension.

Don't
Add unnecessary keywords to your description in an attempt to improve search results. Repetitive or irrelevant use of keywords can create an unpleasant user experience and result in an item being suspended from the Chrome Web Store. See [Keyword Spam policy][keyword-spam] for more information.

Images
The graphical assets that appear in your listing are the store icon, screenshots, and your promotional images. The following sections provide guidance for how you can best use these assets to provide a high-quality, compelling store listing.

Store icon
Your item's icon is one of the first elements of your item that users see when they are on your store listing page. Use an icon that is simple and recognizable to your brand. Most often, this will simply be the brand or developer logo. Ensure your icon follows our extension icon best practices.

Do
Keep it simple, and use colors and design elements that are consistent with the branding of your other assets.

Don't
Include screenshots or UI elements. These details can be very hard to see in small sizes.

See more examples of icons that follow the correct guidelines on the extension icon best practices page.

Screenshots
Use screenshots (or videos) to convey the capabilities, look and feel, and experience of your item to users. You must provide at least one—and preferably the maximum allowed five—screenshots of your item to be displayed in the store. Screenshots should demonstrate the actual user experience, focusing on the core features and content so users can anticipate what the extension's experience will be like. Screenshots should reflect the most up-to-date functionality corresponding to the latest version of the extension.

Do not include screenshots that are blurry, distorted, or pixelated in a way that is not an intentional aspect of your brand or user experience.
Rotate screenshots appropriately. Do not upload images upside down, sideways, or otherwise skewed.
Branding on screenshots and videos should be consistent with other branding elements on the store listing page (such as icon or promotional images), so users can immediately associate them with your extension and brand.
Include visual aids like infographics, images and videos to explain the onboarding flow, user experience, and main functionalities of the item.
Images should not use too much text to avoid overwhelming the user.
Use square corners and no padding (full bleed).
1280x800 or 640x400 pixels.
Note: Screenshots at full 1280x800 resolution may look better on high-resolution displays. You can use 640x400 screenshots instead—for example if 1280x800 is too big to show your extension properly.
Do
Make sure your screenshots are clear and sized correctly. Use visual aids in the screenshots to help explain how it works. A fictional
screenshot that is clear

Don't
Use screenshots that are distorted, are of low quality, or have overwhelming amounts of text. A fictional
screenshot that is blurry

Note: Tip: If your extension supports multiple locales, you can provide locale-specific screenshots as described in Localize your listing.
Promotional images: promo tiles and marquee image
Promotional images are your chance to capture users' attention and entice them to learn more. Don't just use a screenshot; your images should communicate the brand and appear professional. Here are specifics about each promotional image:

Small promo tile: 440x280 pixels
Appears on the homepage, category pages, and in search results.
Marquee image: 1400x560 pixels
Used if your item is chosen for the marquee feature (the rotating carousel on the top of the Chrome Web Store homepage). To increase your chances of being featured, ensure your marquee image is uncluttered, high-resolution, and has consistent branding elements to your other assets so users can immediately associate it with your extension and brand.
Here are some rules of thumb for designing your promotional images:

Avoid too much text.
Avoid an image that is too "busy".
Make sure your image works even when shrunk to half size.
Use saturated colors if possible; they tend to work well.
Avoid using a lot of white and light gray.
Fill the entire region.
Make sure the edges are well defined.
Avoid claims that misrepresent the extension's or developer's current status or performance on the Chrome Web Store (such as "Editor's Choice" or "Number One").
Branding on promotional images should be consistent with other branding elements on the store listing page (such as icon or screenshots).
Do
Keep the image simple and clean, using colors and branding that matches your other assets. A fictional promo
tile image that works

Don't
Include claims that misrepresent your extension's status. A fictional listing
image that includes a misleading badge

Additional fields
Including a website for your item and URLs for support pages can help build trust with users. Ensure these fields are filled out in the developer dashboard so users know where they can find more information about your item.

Was this helpful?

Prepare your extension

bookmark_border
After registering and setting up your developer account, you can submit your extension to the Chrome Web Store. But before you do so, there are a few ways to prepare your extension and other content before submitting your item.

Test your extension in production
Load your extension locally and make sure all your features work as intended before uploading your extension to the Chrome Web Store.

Review your manifest
After uploading your item, you won't be able to edit the metadata of your manifest in the developer dashboard. This means, that if you notice a typo, you will have to edit the manifest, increase the version number, and zip the files all over again.

Make sure you check and include the following fields:

"name"
This name appears in the Chrome Web Store and the Chrome browser.
"version"
The version number of this extension release.
"icons"
An array specifying the icons of your extension.
"description"
A string of no more than 132 characters that describes your extension.
Set the initial version number in the manifest to a low value, such as 0.0.0.1. That way, you have room to increase the version number when you upload new versions of your item. Each new version that you upload to the Chrome Web Store must have a larger version number than the previous version.

Note: If you encounter a "Cannot parse the manifest" error when you upload your extension, check the format of your manifest JSON file. Commonly, this error occurs if there are comments in the manifest file. To resolve this issue, remove any comments from the manifest file and attempt to re-upload your extension.
Zip your extension files
To upload your extension, you need to submit a ZIP file that contains all extension files. Make sure you place the manifest file in the root directory, not in a folder.

Additional store listing content
Besides the metadata in your manifest, you will also need to provide content, images, and URLs that will help your users understand what value your extension offers. See Creating a great listing page for details on creating a high-quality listing page that clearly communicates what your item will offer, using the item description, images, and other listing metadata.